Dear Luis:

Was glad to get your letter and know that you are planning to come back to the Behrens school next fall and also that you are staying in Europe over the summer. Your plans sound very interesting; perhaps we might be able to do some of the things together.

My plans for Dalmatia have been fading considerably in the past few weeks because the outlook is that I would have to go alone which does not appeal to me. In the meantime, however, Erick and Franz Krandt have been thinking something about a trip to Spain from here or a hike through the north of Italy and south of France. The idea is very appealing aside from being inexpensive but I am still not sure of the plans will materialize.

The Swiss Aufsitz Camp in Zurich, or whatever it is, sounds like a good idea as it is always to save some money for trips later in the season. Also I know a number of people who will be there who would be a great help as far as announcements were concerned. I would appreciate you giving me more details & in regard to what sort of a thing this camp is, its name, etc.

I really want to do quite some travelling during the summer but have to take care that it doesn’t cost too much as my allowance seems to be shrinking. At any rate let me hear more about your plans because we might be able to work out something together.

Things are running along fast now here in Vienna. The Academy closes on the 19 of June and then is plenty for me to do between now and then on my project. Aside from that an exhibition of paintings (of my father) is opening next week and the publicity and other things connected with it have kept me on the run.

May 22

I have now gotten around to finishing this letter. It is rather afraid about having opened this morning. People seem to be rather enthusiastic about it so I am hoping that it will be a success.

An architect I met here from England studying sports facilities (baths, pools for swimming, etc.) is very anxious to buy a Contax Camera. He may be passing through Vienna so I advised him to look you up; first, because it’s quite interesting both to someone ahead, and secondly, because I believe you said that you had some sort of connection with Zeiss Contax, with the possibility of getting a reduction in its retail price. But any rate don’t be surprised when he drops in on you if he does come through Vienna.

The negatives of yours were cut apart by Erick and Franz to make copying them easier. Hope that it makes no difference to you.
Regards to you, Luis, and if possible let me hear from you as soon as possible regarding Zurich.

Winold.




