Dear Lucho!

You Rat, you snake in the grass, where in hell do you get the nerve to write and say you don't know whose fault it is that our correspondence has lapsed so — you know very well that I didn't answer your last letter — it's just your Chilean politeness that makes you try to beat around the bush. But to be perfectly truthful I have meant to write to you for the past four months and never just gotten around to it. Well, your letter now has given me such a conscience that within five minutes after receiving it I am answering.

All your news was very interesting. I knew that you were on the ski team as a friend of Burgos and Paredes, Edgar Plath, who came up with them showed me a Chilean paper with your picture in the ski group. Since leaving Chile I have often thought of the fine skiing I had there and hope that someday I will be able to return to repeat my experiences. To say the least I am very envious of you. I have various plans for going out west to Sun Valley in Idaho for a couple of weeks this winter but do not know if they will really materialize. While visiting a friend of mine up in Massachusetts this summer I met W. Hilte, the Swiss chap who used to teach in Chile — I believe you knew him.

For three and a half months I have been living alone. My Mother has left for Europe for a year’s stay — mostly in Paris. When I knew that she was going I had to look around for a small apartment for myself and found a very nice place considering everything & price mostly. I have two small rooms, kitchen, and bath which look quite nice now that I have fixed them up considerably. I live in a semi basement apartment in an old house separated from the house on the street by a little garden which gives me plenty of quiet. Almost like living in the county. A fireplace makes it even more attractive. I usually eat at home and find it very easy to broil steak, etc., over charcoal in the fireplace for such friends who I feel like inviting. An extra bed gives me the atmosphere of running an hotel whenever out of town friends happen to be staying over in the city. So, now you know that there is a place for you to stay when you make that projected trip to New York. You are welcome for a day, a week, a month or a year — if you stay a year you can save enough money to take a Packard back to Chile with you.

What is all this I have read in the papers about a baby revolution in Santiago? I had to go to Peru for an earthquake and come back to the States to hear about a revolution. Really you didn't have things planned very well for me.

Talking of political situations, it has certainly been interesting to follow events in europe. All our old friends who would have loved to say to us ""I told you so"". I wonder how they are all getting along these days. I am sure that some of them have met with some disappointments. For me the most encouraging thing of all was to hear that there would be no war. A war would have no doubt meant the end of the present system of civilization in europe. Here in New York the refugees keep pouring in faster than ever, I only fear that a race prejudice drive may start here in the not too distant future. From Better and Schaller I have already received pleas to send Afidavits to make it possible for them to come over to this country. Not being assured of steady employment I can do nothing for them. There is one person who I often wonder about — Franz von Hildebrand. I hope that he was able to get out before they got him as he was on their black list.

From Nora I hear quite often. She wrote that you had written to her some time ago and was very glad to think that you still thought of the family. Lately I have had a rather depressing letter from her. All their friends seem to have left Vienna with the result that she and her sister are rather left to themselves. No doubt the recent war scare had a lot to do with her state of mind.

Here in New York conditions seem to be improving a little although there is still comparatively little building going on/ My Father has been kept pretty busy with the result that I have enough to do. He recently completed a new Restaurant in the Empire State Building which is really very striking. I am sure that you would like it very much. The World’s Fair is progressing fast. Many of the buildings are up already. Practically all the buildings have huge murals on the outside. I don't believe that there has ever been a fair where the art work has been so ""en masse"". Dad is doing the murals on the outside of the Theatre and Concert Building. He is using two metals (aluminum and brass) and mosaic. One of the figures is 12 meters high and a mask representing acting is of about the same height. He has also made the color scheme for the outside of the building and for the lobbies and theatre auditorium.

I still have my state examination to look forward to. It is still not determined if I will be able to take it this spring. When it is over I will feel new born.

One of the photos I took down on my visit to Lucho Valdez was accepted for publication in ""U. S. Camera 1939"". It was one taken at the Rodeo San Fernandez of milling steers. The only reason I can feel proud of the fact of their accepting it is that they chose only two hundred pictures from over ten thousand which were submitted from all parts of the United States. During the summer I don't think I took over one roll of film which has at least saved me some money.

Please say ""hello"" to everybody for me — especially to your Mother and Father who were so kind to me. I hope to still print the photos I promised L. Valdez and Tito. I will print the Berlenga pictures soon and send them to you by regular mail.

Let me hear from you again and not next year!
