I was very glad to hear that the earthquake did not have any ill effects on you or yours. All I can say is that it is the only earthquake that I could read about intelligently, as I had been to most of the places affected and on top of the volcanoes in recent wild eruption. It must have been a terrible thing — particularly for those who lived through the first shocks to be scared out of their wits by the later ones.

Your work sounds very remarkable and I am full of envy. I can easily picture you working your way in your office and telling how the way it was done ahead. The commissions you have had so far sound particularly interesting and just the type of things you like so much. I hope you do send me photos of some of the work...

While I am still on the subject of Chile I must warn you to expect some friends of mine — Mr. & Mrs. BRUCE GIMBEL, who are flying around South America in their own plane. They may already have reached Chile with this letter. I gave them your name, but I hope not. They had planned staying only a couple of days in Chile; but after my talk to them I think they will stay longer. As a matter of fact I talked so enthusiastically that I believe that in the end they must have thought me an agent of the Chilean Government. They seem to be quite nice people and I think you will enjoy meeting them.

I still haven’t developed, or rather printed all my photos of the trip. I sold some to the National Geographic a few weeks ago. Otherwise I have not had particular luck with them — to me, however, they still bring back memories of the wonderful time I had in S.A. and particularly in Chile, due to your help.

Here in New York the World’s Fair is progressing. I don’t see how they can possibly have everything ready on time but maybe they will. My father has made the exterior mural and interior decoration for the theatre out there. Other than that there has not been much to do for it. It will be an interesting affair. Built on the “democratic” idea of free expression there are a few good things and some perfectly terrible ones. Quite a contrast to similar developments in Germany or Italy where one standard exists throughout. The proportions of the thing are staggering and it should be a very interesting thing to visit. They are planning on a two year run and I have heard rumours of even three years. The “theme” of the whole thing is rather a joke. Everybody feels it looks like Göring’s or failed reproductive organ and I must say I rather agree. It is certainly no architectural motive in my mind. More like a phallic symbol of older times. I believe it is be rather absurd that they did not exercise more control over the planning of the whole thing. When do you plan coming up to see it? If you have any friends who want to come warn them not to come during July or August as the heat out here it is is simply terrible during those two months.

Right now the U.S. is being thoroughly scared by the President and the newspapers regarding the dictators of Europe and the possibility of war. They could mind their own business over here and will have us as a war yet. I only hope that Roosevelt gets human and during the next election before he has us revengeing the Jews. The only reason anybody with the least bit of brains can see in his attacks on foreign dictators is to try to hide the misgivings of the present administration which so far has not been able to return to U.S. prosperity. With a lot of war industry they think they can put people to work. The people here are actually beginning to believe that Hitler wants to send bombers over here to attack and enter the U.S. The Germans are getting absolutely superhuman. And as far as South America is concerned the belief is prevalent that the Nazis are fast on the road to controlling business and trade and will soon be making colonies and you Chileans, Bolivians, Peruvians, etc. When the Socialists lose and in Chile it will be just another proof of fascist conquests.

Well Lucho, you dog you, say “hello” to everybody for me with particular greetings to your mother and father.

Wish you all the success with your work.

So long — Tjark

