Dear Lucho,

Muchas gracias for the splendid fotos; your new IKONTA is certainly a wonder. I liked the ones of Chiquita and Lollita immensely; will see that they reach their rightful destination as soon as the senoritas in question blow into town. Right now, Patty is whirling around Cape Cod with some German Count Von Opal — ""Might as well look into the Axis now that we've covered the Allies"" she writes — and Frankie is leading all the farmer's sons to ruin in the rural countryside of Woodstock, Vermont. They expect to be on hand and all waxed for the ski season in New York and points north, however.

As for me, Uncle Sam finally caught up with me, and after a hectic two weeks out at Sun Valley skiing in a Military Ski Troop Training Film, I went down south to Virginia, where I have been sweating my life's blood and the season's crop of martinis away. I am making a training film on the care and feeding of pontoon bridges, than which there is nothing duller, but — there is hope of a commission as a second Lieutenant soon, so all is not lost.

As for the film, I have been working on that most of the summer, and it is in pretty tip top shape by now. Deborah Bankart of the Hanover Ski School is going to lecture with it for me, and we have got bookings all over the country. The Rockefeller Committee has purchased rights to the highlights of it — about a forty minute reel in Spanish soundtrack — so you should be able to see that at the American embassy in Santiago in about three months.

Glad to hear the good news about Julio; give him our best from up here; the impression of pluck and courage he made will not soon be forgotten. And let me know how Jaime made out in the nationals; I will try and sell the three pix you sent, but can't guarantee it.

Sounds like a good skiing year in Chile — you must be spring skiing now on Villarica and Osorno; bet it can't beat the chair lifts in the Sugar Bowl, tho! How did Agustin's portable ski tow work out? And is Arturo setting up a ski school for tired maidens on the side, as in Yosemite? Tell me all the news, so I can relay it to Roland and Duby and Los Camp Followers...

Many thanks, and all good wishes to you all; wish we could see you soon again. It was a grand trip,

Sincerely,
John Jay