My dear Lucho,

I have just received your letter from April 5th and was so pleased to get it because I feared I was never going to hear from you again. I did not congratulate you upon your engagement and this is why: When I saw Cucho last Xmas, he told me a lot about you and chiefly about things in connection with me (that I could NEVER have guessed from your letters). Maybe he shouldn’t have told me, so don’t be angry with him. But then he told me of your engagement. I was really rather disappointed and preferred to wait until I could write you a nice letter. I nearly got married myself after that, but changed my mind just in time to save myself from committing an awful mistake. And talking about “mistake” — I want to come to the chief point of this letter. When you say “that, not having had a letter from me for such ages — caused you, you realized lately, to make several mistakes, that had us way out” — do you mean to say, that you are not quite happy about your engagement? I cannot think of anything else and so forgive me if I am wrong. But, Lucho, PLEASE don’t ever get married if you are not sure of making a success of marriage. I’ve seen that unhappy marriage can be like, beginning with my own mother. It isn’t worth the misery you have to go through. But of course I am talking without knowing why there is no “way out” as my sermon is perhaps out of place. — I still wish you the very best of luck and I mean that.

As I think it is very bad to write depressed letter, I am very sorry that I wrote you one. It must have been my asthma, of which, by the way, I have got rid of completely. No more cats — no asthma!

I had such a lovely holiday — the first one for 2 years — I shall never forget it. Perfect spring weather, good books, good music and two satchels (dug) in a big house of a friend of mine. It was perfect. Now I am working again. This time harder than I have ever worked before. Every day I wish that I were stronger than I am, because with such hard work I get so very very tired. But I have to do it and that’s that!

Shortly after my last letter to you, Mary wrote to me, to tell me that she was going to have a baby in July. I am so glad and I am to be the godmother. Only I shan’t be able to hold my nephew or niece in my arms until the war is over. I am glad you like children Lucho, they are such fun. What a pity that all your friends seem to be able to come over here so easily and that you are so far away yourself. I would so like to see you again. I should think that we must both have changed, because it is so many years since we last saw each other.

I will write to you again very soon, in case this letter gets lost on its way. I hope it won’t. Do write to me very soon and PLEASE don’t be afraid to tell about yourself. You never seem to do so. And tell me about your house and your plans for the future. Don’t be shy please!

Lots and lots of love
Yours
Nora

P.S. You see — no time to learn Spanish now. But your English isn’t half as bad as you think.

