My dear Nora,

It’s just now that I have received your letter from May 28th. It’s so nice of you to take so much pain about me.

My marriage is not going to be a failure, without being perfect. I will tell you how it happened and with out knowing about it:

I have always been in love with you, but as Tjark was between us, I kept it to myself, but I always thought of you as the right person to help one make a success of life as you had amongst other qualities, the feeling for art, lecture, painting, music etc. In general you had understood at the way I agreed.

A while after I wrote you summer started (November — March 1942) and I used to see Angela, my fiancée at a Country Club near Santiago where I went swimming. As I was a friend of her older sister, and I didn’t like her, I thought she was alike, and I didn’t take any notice of her before. As I started going out with her we saw each other often in the Club, some we came together, went out together sometimes, went back and forth to the Club together — as time went by I noticed that she was falling in love. As I had no news from you since so long, and felt rather disappointed about it, I started going out with her frequently until I noticed she had fallen in love with me, then I stopped seeing her for quite a while until I realised that I had grown a liking for her first and then we both fell in love.

Angela is awfully sweet, attractive, at least to one, but we have nothing in common except skiing and camping. She has a rather common way of looking at art, with no idea of literature, were I am weak myself. At the beginning she didn’t care, later she has been trying her best to understand it, but without getting exactly to the point but without improving my own more less finding a new point of view. The thing is I don’t see any chance of her helping me with my work and it will have to be a life, and this is a thing between a life in the only work and life at home.

She is awfully religious and this is a thing I would never have thought my wife to be. She already has save it up to convert me into active Catholic. Anyway I prefer my children to be brought up have a religious upbringing once they are grown up they can choose as they want. The thing is, I tell you that there was no way out — well, we are very much in love, just the same, and I hope this is going to make us both change a little for the best, as we already have. The thing is, and this made me tell you “that there was no way out,” that if I had heard of you before, I would have never fallen in love with her ....

You are the only person to know all my feelings about my marriage!

I am so sorry to tell you all this, as if life wasn’t enough complicated for you over there.

I am so glad you had a pleasant holiday after all, you must have had a "hell of a time with your asthma etc...

It’s fine Mary is going to have a baby, and so glad for both of them. I don’t know if it is setting old, but I do want to have a boy and so does Angela fortunately.

I have heard that Sergio Larraín is in England since a week. It must be awfully interesting for him.

Well, do write as often as you can with all my love

yours
Lucho

P.S. Thank you for your good intention with regard of the Cable.





