My dear Lucho, 
A few days ago I received your letter of June 16th. I don’t think I can tell you how happy it has made me. I like that you say about Angela and I am sorry I cannot meet her. I understand everything you say in your letter, and these last 4 weeks I did quite a lot of thinking and came to the conclusion that it would be far more valuable for you and me to remain just friends. You mustn’t think that if you talk about your own life or worries and troubles, you bother me in any way. It may seem strange, but if one has trouble, of one’s own (including the war of course) it is almost a recreation to think about other people’s problems, because it does take one’s mind off one’s own difficulties. So if it does you any good at all, to tell me your problems or even to grumble, please do so. I am even more optimistic about your marriage than you are.

I feel that Angela (what a lovely name) is very young. And I am convinced that she loves you very much. And that will make her want to be interested in the things that you are interested in. By the way, Lucho, I can tell you from my own experience, that even at my age (nearly 28) I am still learning about art and music and literature. In the past year, especially in music, I have learned to appreciate and love some things, that I either didn’t know years ago, or wouldn’t have cared for, or even understood. And I have learned all this all on my own, because I don’t know a soul here, who really cares for good music. Cincho does. Well you see Lucho, there is no reason why you should fear that Angela may never acquire a taste for music and art. The more she will see and hear the better she will like it. I wonder why I never spoke about the religion with you. Perhaps it was because Tjark didn’t care for it and during that year in which you knew me I went through the most unreligious period of my life, so far. But since the age of 14 up to now, religion meant everything to me and without it, I should be a complete ass. It is a religion of my own though and for years I haven’t felt the urge to go to church, or discuss religion with other people. I am glad that Angela is religious, I believe that people who have a sound (strong) religion are not so easily knocked off their pedestal. I am so perfectly certain that you too will be happy. I should very much like to have a photo of you and Angela. — Mary had a little boy 2 weeks ago and is very happy.
I haven’t heard from Tjark for ages and I hope that he’s alright. My life is not really dull now, I have made new friends and I have changed my job. But I will tell you about my new job when I have started it, which will be next week.

Your friend Sergio is enjoying the gay life in London and maybe that I will see Lucho soon before he goes back to Chile. They will both have lots to tell you about life in general over here.

By the time you get this, you maybe married. Anyway I wish you all the best of luck and Angela too. Don’t forget to write and tell me about the wedding and send me a photograph — that is, when all the excitement is over and you find time.

A big kiss for Lucho

Yours
Nora

My new address:
“LITTLE HALDON”
PARK GATE
NEWDIGATE
SURREY

