Dear Lucho,

I hope you are still alive to be able to read my letter of thanks for your Christmas letter of December 1997. I did mean to write to you last year (1998) but didn’t because last year was a very hard and very sad year for me. Étienne had started with small attacks of senile dementia some 3 years ago and this sad state became very violent at the beginning of 98. It was very sad to see my Étienne in this state and it was very difficult and strenuous to look after him. He was absolutely unrecognizable and I had to take leave of him bit by bit, week by week, month by month. There is no medicine or therapy to stop this degenerative illness. I am 83 years old and our doctor didn’t think I would be able to manage. Étienne refused any help from strangers and as he was up and about, he fell frequently but couldn’t get up by himself and I couldn’t go on getting the Red Cross Ambulance to help me. So in August last year I managed to get him to a very good nursing home. He was not happy there because everything was strange to him. However he was not happy at home because even in our flat in familiar surroundings he was completely forlorn. He usually recognized me but not always. He was well looked after in the house and when he wandered and fell there were male nurses to pick him up. But he hurt himself frequently, his wounds were well treated but he would, in his complete ignorance, tear off bandages. I visited him every day. In September one wound after a fall got septic. He was taken to hospital and I went with him. I knew when I saw him that this septicaemia was his end. I visited him 4 days at the hospital but he no longer moved, his lovely blue eyes were open — without seeing — and I spoke to him and tried to hold his hand, but there was no reaction and I knew he was going. I wanted him to die while I was with him. I was informed that he expired 20 minutes after I had left the hospital. Étienne was 92 years old. I can’t tell you how sorry I was for him in this dreadful state. His daughter and son came for the funeral and Étienne was cremated. Now I am alone in our flat but I will have to look for a place in a home for old people. I don’t mind being alone, I never feel alone by myself and as I am still good at walking and love nature I go for walks in the immediate surroundings. In the past years I have learned a lot about nature: plants, trees, insects and animals but my favorite occupation has been for years — birdwatching. Last year I had little time for myself, which I didn’t even notice I was so engaged looking after Étienne. And since his death there is an awful lot to do after a death, which is just as well, as one has less time for sorrowing.

I well remember your letters and was, some years ago, much impressed by Angela’s intention to get you a dog after her death. I hope he or she as the case may be, still keeps you good company and that you are still able to take the dog for walks. Of course, nothing can replace your companion Angela. Étienne and I were married for 48 years and I like to think of my Étienne in his good years. Thinking of last year makes me cry because I was so terribly sorry for him in this awful mental state.

Well, Lucho, I hope you are in acceptably good health and I wish you all the best for the coming years.

mi cariñoso abrazo,
Nora"


