IRAN TRAVEL INC.

197 Ave. Chaharbagh, Isfahan - Tel. 23010

Daily Sightseeing Group Tours in Isfahan by De lux micro bus
and English speaking guide, including entrance fees.

Half a day tour Each person Rls. 225

Half a day tour (between 8:45 and 9 a.m. to 12)

1- Chehel Sotoun (The palace of 40 columns). Pavilion of lyric beauty where Shab Abbas II used to entertain his royal guests.
2- Masjed-e-Shah (The Shah's Mosque). The most outstanding and impressive mosque built by Shah Abbas the great in early 17th century.
3- The carpet weaving. Here you can see skillful women producing wonderful Isfahan carpets.
4- Masjed-e-Jamé (The Friday Mosque). The oldest and the largest mosque in Isfahan. Here you can see a collection of Persian architecture from 9th to 18th century.
5- The mausoleum of Haroon Velayat (built in 1510 A.D.) you can climb on the roof and you’ll have a wonderful view of the city.

Full day tour (between 2-4 p.m. winter time) (3-5 summer time)

Morning : All the monuments included in half a day tour.

Afternoon

6- Shaking Minarets. The mausoleum of a hermit and curious 14th century building, with two minarets able to shake located 8 kms. outside the city. On the roof the view of the villages and the panorama is fantastic.
7- Fire Temple. A ruined temple of Sassanid period made of adobé and located on the top of a hill ten kms. outside the city.
8- Vank Church. A famous Armenian church, where you can see the ideas from old and new testaments depicted on the walls.
9- The Armenian Museum. Here you can see a nice collection of old manuscripts and paintings.
10- Khajou Bridge. The most attractive bridge of 17th century.
11- Madresé Chaharbagh (The Theological School). A curious combination of school and mosque built in early 18th century. On visiting this monument the tour ends and you are free either to go back to your hotel by our minibus or by your own to have a look at the famous bazzar of arts-next door to the School of Theology.

1- Our mini bus comes to your hotel to pick you up provided that you have warned us beforehand. Without former notice you’ll come to our office to start the tour.
2- The above mentioned places are the maximum that we can show you in one full day tour. But as you know in Isfahan we have many attractions and places of interest For further sight seeing tour ask for our pamphlet of private tour or ring us up.

In this programme shopping is not included.
(MINIMUM 3 PERSONS)

CARS TARIFF

Rls. 120 Each hour Rls. 8 Per kilometer one way
1000 Full day (9 to 12 hours) » 1000 Retainer fee if the car
5-6 Per kilometer round trip is kept day or night
