PETRA - JORDAN

Chapter I

The descendants of Esau were powerful people governed by Dukes.

It is not known when the first arrival of the Nabataeans was at Petra (possibly 600 or 500 BC) but the first history of them was 312 BC as the forces of Antigonus I. unsuccessfully attacked the City. Petra's period of greatest prosperity under the Nabaeans started 100 BC and ended with the conquest by the Romans in 106 AD. The Romans kept the trade that had made Petra great for a long time, but it was already declining because of changes in trade routes.

Petra deteriorated with the coming to power of the Islam around 700 AD and remained dormant only partially lifting during the twelfth century by the advent of the Crusaders who built a powerful fort. In 1265 AD it was admired by the Mameluk Sultan Beybars who visited Petra after having defeated Palmyra. After this Petra is forgotten completely and only remains as a myth. Only students were interested in visiting but couldn't as it was kept jealously guarded by war-like guards because of the myth that the Romans had left their treasures there. In 1812, 600 years since Petra had vanished in history, Burckhardt, an explorer, visited Petra for a few hours. He had learned Arabic during 3 years and lived amongst Arabs disguised as Sheikh Ibrahim. He risked his life when he did so. After that a few archaeologists and scientists and still more limited casual visitors, visited the ancient city. In 1830 a french traveller Léon de Laborde discovered Petra again; Dr. Musil was the first to make a scientific study of the tombs; the latest are Mr. Philby, a British advisor to the Trans-Jordan Government, and Sir Alexander Kennedy whose books attracted great interest.

As you near the entrance to the Siq, the narrow called entrance to the Wadi that is called the Basin, the route becomes often precipitous and sometimes slippery to the horses. The scenery becomes wilder and more wild like an entrance to a robbers cave. Great masses of stone towers above almost meeting over your head; after the Bab-Es-Siq (the gate of the Siq) the gorge narrows and the cliffs get more and more precipitous. We are riding over what was once a paved Roman road. Now, broken and overgrown by weeds. It serves as a brook in winter and is dried the beginning of springtime. The rose colored cliffs, 400 to 700 feet high, form a gorge 2 to 3 meters wide and is the only access to Petra on this side. It becomes dangerous during sudden floods. Many people could not get away in time and payed with their lives. Tamarisks, wild fig, caper plant, and oleander grow luxuriously in the road and crevices where the light reaches to the bottom of the gorge. As you continue riding the rocks are deep red, violet, almost sable. Then at a turn in the ravine you suddenly see the unforgettable picture of the El Khazneh Fur'un - the treasure house of Pharaoh framed in the dark gorge of the Siq. The color of the monument is more flame than rose sand stone designed under Nabataean architects under the influence of late Roman work, but carved direct into solid rock.

Passing on to take a general view of Petra you come into a street of tombs that widens out until you get to a theatre excavated out of the rock, from which you have an extraordinary view of the basin of the Wadi Musa, where successive towns have stood out are now only a mass of masonry covered by scrob and a tangle of oleander. On all sides the gaunt red cliffs stand honey combed by rock dwellings and tombs in which still live about 96 families. Here and there you see a pseudo classic façade or one that reminds you of Assyria or Egypt. It sounds paradoxical but is strictly true.
Petra - Jordan

The principal features that impress the newcomer are: the chief street of the Roman town ran, as usual, along the bank of the river, which according to custom vaulted over for a considerable space. The remains of the Temple and part of the triple gate are the only built monuments still standing. They belong to a late period after the Roman annexation.

The huge mass called El-Habis by the Arabs is a bold promontory of rock which was one of the High Places of Sacrifice on one of its plateaux; the equally imposing Zebb' Atuf has the most finished of these ancient sacrificial places on its summit. Both of these commanding heights have remains of a fort which once guarded Petra and provided an observation for those who defended the almost impregnable city.

The two principal rock walls containing tombs of interest are the North-east walls where some of the finest of the classical tombs are situated - the Urn tomb, the Corinthian tomb and the tomb of the Governer to name the most famous; and the Southeast wall where some of the older and more interesting Nabataean tombs are found. The High Places are approached by climbing up ravines in which, from time to time, steps have been cut in the rock for the use of worshippers - another climb of this description leads up to the Deir, the so called Convent, from which magnificent views can be obtained.

To ascend the Zebb' Atuf, or Okelisk Mount, you have to follow a gorge to the left as you leave the Siq, mounting up a rock-hewn path with stairs cut at intervals up which the Nabataean climbed to worship Dusares. On the summit are two obelisks and places of sacrifice; higher up is the fort and higher again, the great Place of Sacrifice.

On the other side, that is the North side of the shelf, past the ruined tower of the fort and at the highest level and narrowest part of the ridge, lies the ""holy place"" of Zebb'Atuf, the largest and most complete and best preserved of all the Sacella of Petra. The sacrificial basin stands beside the alter, on the one side of a great cleared and levelled rectangle about fifty by twenty-two feet. On account of the narrowness of the ridge and its steep sides there is plenty of room for celebrants but absolutely none for worshippers. So it is presumed that only the priests performed their rituals on this eminence and that the worshippers followed them from a lower level.

The supreme god of the Natabaeans was Dusares or Dhu-Shara, the god of the fresh springs and the mountain district of Spara, the biblical Se'ir. The Nabataeans are also said to have worshipped the Sun. Dusares was later identified with Dionysius. The alters, lavers and other sacrificial objects are purely Semitic and might have been used by Esau, though they probably were hewn at a much later date. The sacrifices of the Nabataeans are said to have been an act of communion with the god, not an offering to appease him.
Chapter II

THE NABATAEAN CITY

The Khazne Fur'Un – The Treasure House of the Pharaon

Although the older Nabataean structures are undeniably the most curious and interesting of all the tombs of Petra, the so-called Treasure of the Pharaon is certainly the most beautiful. It is particularly most impressive to see when you suddenly leave the Siq and then see the soft flame color sandstone which form the greater part of the façade contrast with the cream colour of green bushes that makes a foreground even more beautiful when the oleanders are blooming pink in the springtime.

It is believed by many that this graceful monument is due to the Romans and was executed after 105 and even as late as the visit of Hadrian in 131 A.D. But Dr. Gustav Dalman who has written so much on the subject, thinks that it is certainly anterior to the Roman conquest. He suggests that it was inspired by Greece in the time of transition dates from 335 B.C., just when Greek influence was strongest in Syria, following on the conquests of Alexander. So, whether the design, which was twice copied in Petra itself, was copied from Greece originally, or was due to the genius of a Nabataean architect, it certainly did not come from Rome. It may well have been a mausoleum, or memorial set in honour of one of the later Nabataean Kings.

Khazne seems to have had originally only four columns supporting the entablature and pediment. Later in order to broaden the effect two more columns were added and the entablature extended. This combination of tomb with a shrine in an upper story is believed to be peculiar to Petra.

This peculiar feature of the upper story having a circular temple or shrine in the middle is imitated in the fine tombs called ""The Corinthian and the huge Deir.""

Ed-Deir – The Convent

It is placed in a magnificent position and is colossal as to size. In the plateau where it stands magnificent views are obtained of the whole Wadi Musa (the Basin) with a distant glimpse of the summit of Mount Hor. The temple itself as a work of art lacks a good proportion and the colour of the stone is cold yellowish. The surroundings are so beautiful that the temple appears all the more disappointing in comparison with the wonderful colour of the other rock tombs.

The strongest appeal is the element of surprise after the very long climb up into what appears to be the most solitary and inaccessible spot, you suddenly catch sight over the natural rock of a huge sculptured urn. How did it get there seems unreal, fantastic. A turn in the stony track brings you on to a flat plateau covered with grass, tulips and wild flowers, and there is a great temple for it looks more like such. You enter with some difficulty, climbing over some stone blocks, and find yourself in a huge hall that has no other outlet. In a niche there is something that may have served as an alter. For sheer weight and the great mass the Deir has its fascination, but as a work of art, it is far below the Khazne. It is that it has an order neither Greek nor Roman, but with something like a Doric frieze over a very plain Corinthian capital above this are three very singular turrets, the use and application of which is difficult to understand.

"CHAPTER III

ROMAN PETRA

In 106 A.D. Petra was taken by the Romans and one does know little more of her story. The Nabataeans appear to have fought well to defend their liberties and kept part of the Hauran for some time longer. But the Petraeans became quite Romanised and the city prospered; trade was kept up under Roman direction. They also made one of their famous roads connecting Petra with the Red Sea, and others followed. Improved and Romanised the Nabataean houses erected an Arch at the entrance to the Siq, a triple gate and a Temple and the usual public buildings appeared in the basin of the Wadi Musa, where traces of the streets can still be seen. As usual the religion of the conquered race was respected.

Hadrian paid a visit to Petra (131 A.D.), which was commemorated by a coin bearing the inscription ""Adriane Petra.
The greatest period of prosperity was probably about the end of the first century A.D. But for some centuries to come Petra was a commercial center, which only began to decline in importance when the caravan routes changed, sea being preferred to land and when Palmyra was in the ascendant.

Tomb of Urn

Most of the post-classical tombs belong to the Roman Period. The tomb of Urn is one of the most important, both on account of the simple but majestic style and of the prominent position that it occupies. Standing one hundred feet above the valley temple, for it is undoubtedly a temple and not a tomb, dominates the scene with its four great pilastres supporting an architrave interrupted by small pilastres above which is a triangular pediment on which the urn rests. The temple façade is sculptured from the rock, which is a very beautiful rose or flame red colour, and it stands back on a square platform which rests on an arched substructure of a very massive quality. The labor involved in the engineering was great, and points to the end of the first century A.D. The Temple is approached by a great flight of steps, but these and the substructures are in ruinous condition, and you have to be prepared to climb.

The architecture over the door is ornamented by shields between triglyphs; over it there is a window with three more in the attic; in the center are two figures in bas-relief. To the right and left of the raised terrace are colonnades of pillars of Ionic order, standing out from the wall of rock that forms the side of the enclosure. This feature is quite new to Petra of the Pre-Roman Petra.

Inside we find a large room with wonderful effects of colour in the ceiling and on the walls, which are finally grooved. An inscription tells that the temple was consecrated in 477 A.D. by Bishop Jason.

The tomb with three stories of which the last is not finished. All the rooms are in very damaged condition, having suffered from time and weather more than most. It is a copy of a Roman palace and not that of a temple. It is the only example in Petra. The façade resembles the proscenium of more recent Greek theatres and if it were a tomb, it is one of the most complete misapplications of Greek architecture ever made.

CHAPTER III

The Corinthian Tomb

This is a Roman copy of the Khazne Fur'Un. The lower story has eight Corinthian; the upper contains the center shrine and two lesser projections; the whole is surmounted by the usual urn.

Sextus Florentinus Tomb

It has latin inscription. The façade shows a central portal flanked by columns.

The Lyon Monument

One of the most striking of the Roman monuments. It is seen on the western side of Petra when climbing up to the Dier looking across the valley. It is not a tomb, but a triclinium. The lions are in low relief on each side of the doorway. The frieze carries two Medusa heads and four paterae. It is obvious that the monument must be a late one. But it is noticeable that it must have been connected with the worship of Dusares.

The Theatre

It is more likely that the theater dates from the time of Aretas III, when there was a great Hellenistic influence in Petra, and the Greeks looked on the theater as a necessity, whereas the Romans preferred the amphitheater as more fit for contests of man and beast to take place. So it is quite likely that it was excavated at the earlier date.

Tunnels were excavated to divert the flood waters that when unpredictably happened could deteriorate paved roads, the monuments and a hazard to the town dwellers. It is not clear if they were excavated by the Nabataeans or Romans. But they are insufficient to solve the occassional flood problems.

It is certain that Christianity penetrated into Petra and the surrounding country. In the fourth century it was a seat of a bishopric.

For long before the Roman débacle began, Petra gradually declined in importance. Her commerce was diverted into other channels, she sinks away into the shadow. Then quite suddenly, at the end, she was destroyed by the Persians and the followers of Mohammed, and vanished altogether from history. The Crusaders partially revived Petra for a very short period of the twelfth century, and built a fort in one of the summits.

JERASH - JORDAN

CHAPTER IV

The ruins of Jerash, the ancient Gerasa of the Decapolis, stand amongst quiet country with the background of soft colored violet coloured hills. Near by Bab-Amman, so called the Triumphal Gate, the corn stands feet high with wild spring flowers sprinkled about the ground. Jerash is located a 45 minute drive from Amman.

The Circassian village on the left bank of the river is too far from the heart of the old town. Jerash is a dead city. It is absorbed in the past because it has remained a fossilized Roman town with not having had additions of later age to disturb the harmony of the past. This is the charm that has made Jerash also so interesting for archeology, as an almost unique example of a Roman town. Although in spirit, the citizens retained much of the original Greek character, there is something of the culture that has outlasted the brief period of Greek power for centuries.

Jerash is situated in a basin surrounded by hills. Through this basin of cultivated land a shallow valley runs a stream – the Chrysorrhoas, the Golden River of the Romans – rushes over the stones, and finally emptying 7000 meters below in the Zerka.

One of the first impressions that you get, as you stand by Bab-Amman is the great extent of the field of ruins. The Great Gate with its triple arch, the mass of columns still standing within what were the city walls, much of which still remains – The Ellipse of the Forum, the upstanding columns of the Great Temple of Artemis and other principal features of the city are all of greatest interest for the archeologist. But there, almost as far as the eye can reach, are little groups of columns standing out on the hillside as lonely evidence of some past habitation. Jerash has a golden stone colouring in contrast to the rosy flame rock of Petra.

The Bab-Amman stands on the Roman road going south to Amman. To the left is a filled-in space where once there was a Naumachia for sham sea-fights and water pageants and beyond it was the Circus. The South Gate set in the wall of the city walls it appears to have been rather like an outer gate, but very little of it remains. Inside the walls, a little to the left of the gate, the ruins of a peripteral temple stand on an artificial terrace on a sudden hillock. The southern wall of the Cella and some columns of the Corinthian order are still to be seen and are called by the Arabs the Beit et-Tei. Near to this temple is the Southern Theater; on the right is the graceful Ellipse of the Forum, columns of Ionic order with the entablature so much in place that you scarcely regret that the oval is not complete.

The great street of columns begins to the north-east of the forum and continues for about half a mile. Two roads intersect this main street which also are colonnaded and which have each a Tetrapylon at the crossing. Between these, nearer to the further street, stood the Great Propylaea of the Temple of Artemis, which stood up on a terrace on rising ground of columns of the Corinthian order that once adorned the Portico are a striking feature of the general view. Near to the temple were various churches, built of the old material. One of these is a fine basilica of the Byzantine period.

The further colonnaded street was the street of the Theater. To the left was the Northern Theater, which seems to have been for gladiatorial shows and other performances dear to the heart of the Roman soldiers. To the right the road ran down to the river where there was once a bridge. On this road were some magnificent Baths. The road which led to the temple was quite a short one; it was continued down to the river passing the site of a later Byzantine church. The first cross road, which is the longest, ran through the Eastern Gates to a steep flight of steps that led to another bridge over the river. Outside the gates, north and south were sarcophagi; one large mausoleum, that of Es-Samuri has a fine portal and some columns of the Corinthian order. Outside the Northern Gate is the ruin of a basilica that was built with the materials of the pagan sanctuary of Nemesis. This is the skeleton of the town.

There are some remains of an inner line of columns that suggests, that typical of Greco-Roman towns, was surmounted by an open arcade on a level with the first story of the houses. The writer Libanus tells that in Jerash you need never stay indoors because of bad weather as you always had the shelter of the arcades.

From the general layout of the town there was space enough for a Roman legion to have been accommodated. The Crusaders never tried to keep the place as no remains of their fortresses are to be found.

The Triple Gate (Bab-Amman) apparently stood without a connection with the outer wall. It just was a triumphal gate through which people had to pass on their way to Gerasa. The suggested date is that of the arch of Trojan in Rome to which it bears some likeness. It consists of a central arch with lesser openings on either side.

In general the capitals of the columns were mostly Corinthian and the acanthus design of their capitals were of the Roman development of the Greek acanthus, but probably executed by Greek artists, as was very usual in Siria. Whatever was done in this Greco-Roman city was done with the view to the vista and component of modern towns would have offended the Greek sense of the aesthetic order of space and proportions.

Jerash has been said to be second only to Palmyra in size and importance and second only to Baalbeck in beauty of Roman architecture.

Summarized from documentation collected from the Cambridge Public Library.



