SUBJECT: Petra and Jerash Project in Jordan

Description of the Site

PETRA is a complex of roman ruins consisting of monuments and public buildings carved directly into the pink rock formation of a high and deep Wadi. There are periodic floods that through milleniums have formed this very deep irregular wide wadi. These floods are a hazard to the travelers in some places. Twenty-nine American tourist died because of it two years ago. The floods are also eroding the monuments. As a first step a tunnel for deviation of the waters has recently been built, but this is only part of a protection project. This area is called the Basin. Beduins families, 96 in number are living in the Basin and together with unorganized tourism are causing damage to the monuments. The opening of the wadi into the desert is called the Entrance. This area has many interesting egyptian tomb constructions.

JERASH or JARASH is also a complex of roman ruins located in open land. They consist of large semi circular colonnades, public buildings and monuments. It is located 45 minutes drive from Amman.

Next phase after this project is going to be a large tourism project on the lovely beaches of Aqaba.

Project Cost

IBRD loan US 6millionTotalProjectCostUS 12.145 million

Fees 0.5 to 0.6 million

They include design and supervision but not Project Management nor Unesco's archaeological reconstruction, preservation and protection studies.

Scope of the Works

PETRA
A. Entrance to the Wadi.
1. Infrastructure and protection against floods.
2. Hotels and related facilities. The buildings must blend in with the egyptian existing tombs.
3. Visitors center
4. Staff quarters
5. Stables
6. Archaeology, etc. financed and done by Unesco.
7. Project Management by special appointed staff of the Government and financed together with IBRD. They would coordinate the consultant and Unesco.
B. Base Area

Infrastructure and physical protection of the site
Visitors facilities
Archaeological reconstruction, preservation and protection by Unesco.
The location of service facilities approved by Unesco through coordination by the Project Management.
Beduins resettlement outside the archaeological sites.
JERASH

Infrastructure
Restaurant facilities
Layout of trails
Sound and light facilities
Improvement of visitors centers
Training assistance
Archaeological reconstruction, preservations and protection by Unesco. Coordination by the Project Management.
